Our theme is a very interesting one about the spiritual man, now he examines all things.
It's the spirit of God that makes a Christian into a person who stands out as different
from those who are part of this world.
So with that in mind, read with me first Corinthians chapter 2, verse 12.
Through the scripture states, now we received not the spirit of the world, but the spirit
that is from God, so that we might know the things that have been kindly given us
by God.
The spirit that we receive from Jehovah God is his active force, and we really must have
it if we're going to understand spiritual things.
If we're going to appreciate the things that Jehovah God has kindly given us as the
text states, has Jehovah spirit opened the door to kindly give you and give me wonderful
things?
The kingdom, the ransom, the hope of everlasting life, a new world, the resurrection, these
are things that the spirit has revealed to Jehovah's people.
Something else that we've received is the world-wide brotherhood, a really that we're
a part of, and when you examine the world-wide brotherhood, it becomes very evident.
It could never exist apart from Jehovah God's spirit.
No way could man bring about such a brotherhood.
Now let's read verse 13, verse Corinthians 2, 13.
It says, these things, that is the things he has given us, we also speak not with words
taught by human wisdom, but with those taught by the spirit as we explain spiritual matters
with spiritual words.
We focus on spiritual things.
The sum total of human experience and wisdom, its writings, philosophies, and teachings
are, as Jesus said, of no use at all to gain everlasting life.
That's John 663.
Spiritual matters and spiritual words are found right here in God's Word, the Bible.
And our vocabulary is different from the words for the world's way of speaking, which
is becoming more and more vulgar and disgusting.
Our speech centers on spiritual matters, Jehovah's will, and so we explain the spiritual
matters that we understand from the scriptures with spiritual words.
And in the end, we give glory to Jehovah by doing so.
And now let's read verse 14, there it says, but a physical man does not accept the things
of the Spirit of God, for they are foolishness to him, and he cannot get to know them because
they are examined spiritually.
When it speaks of a physical man, it's not speaking about a person with a fleshly body,
because after all, Christians living today, on this earth, we have fleshly bodies, but
it refers to a person who has no spiritual side to his life.
And there are many who fall into this category.
Some of them are humanists who seem to be people who really want to do what is good.
They want to help people.
Their main pursuit is the welfare of people.
But does that make them spiritual?
No.
The spiritual man knows that to love his neighbor as himself is the second commandment.
Most of the only thing they follow, but the main thing, the first commandment, the most
important one, is to love Jehovah God with your whole heart, mind, soul, and strength.
And this is something that the humanist does not follow.
What about atheists, agnostics, and evolutionists?
As we studied recently, many people embrace evolution, not because they have really studied
things and they're convinced by certain things they consider to be facts.
No.
They've been told by someone that it's true and so they accept what they've been told.
And on the other hand, there are died in the wool atheist and evolutionists who embrace
theories that if those theories they embrace were applied to any other discipline or aspect
of life, they would not be considered anything but fantasy and wild imagination.
And that's the truth.
Some physical men ridicule believers in God and say, well, your belief in God is just
a crutch.
I don't need a crutch.
Well, you do need a crutch.
That's the truth of the matter.
You're mortal.
All of us are mortal.
And we need help in the sense that we need divine intervention, help from Jehovah God and
he provides it through the ransom sacrifice of Jesus Christ.
So we understand why the physical man acts the way he does.
He shuts his eyes to the overwhelming facts of creation, the obvious intelligent design
of DNA, the fine tuning of the forces, the four forces evident in the universe, Earth's
marvelous cycles that maintains it, the precise placement of Earth in the solar system,
the wonderful symbiotic relationships in the plant and animal world and so much more
that make it very obvious, the wonderful, the marvelous intelligence that Jehovah God
exhibits in creation.
But as 1 Corinthians 2.14 says, and we read it, a physical man does not accept the things
of the Spirit of God.
And what's interesting, he looks at just the physical things.
And yet it's the Spirit of God that created the wonderful physical things, but he's blind
because he can't see beyond them.
It's like a man who admires a beautiful painting, a marvelous work of art, and he
purchase it for his home and he praises the artist.
And then he wants to see the scene or the site where the artist did his work.
So he goes to the mountains where the lakes are and the mountains are the trees, the wildlife,
and he observes these things and he is awestruck with their beauty.
And he praises the artist.
He doesn't say anything about the one who did the original.
He's blind and that's how it is with a physical man.
1 Corinthians 2.15, that verse says, however, the spiritual man examines all things, but
he himself is not examined by any man.
The spiritual man is not one who all day long wears a sanctimonious or religious expression
on his face.
He's not like a self-righteous Pharisee.
The spiritual man is capable of admitting when he makes a mistake.
His first thought is not to save face.
That his first thought is really to be honest and open.
He knows his creator can see everything and knows everything.
We are honest with ourselves and with others and we deal with situations with modesty.
And what is more, the spiritual man is able to see the wrong position of the physical
man, the course of the physical man.
We understand the mental attitude of the physical man.
We know what makes him tick.
However, the physical man does not understand the spiritual man.
And just for a brief explanation, 1 John chapter 2 verses 15 through 17, which I won't
read at this time, but it gives a very brief description of the mental attitude and
outlook of the physical man.
A fact that cannot be ignored also is that Christendom's churches, as well as all religions
that are part of Babylon the Great, with their unscriptural teachings, unclean practices
and meddling in politics have played a major role in driving people away from belief in
the true God.
They have a great responsibility before Jehovah God because of the foolish, ridiculous
things they teach and their activities that dishonor Jehovah.
They have driven people to atheism and agnosticism.
So how good it is to know the true God, Jehovah, to have been drawn to Him.
And if you know the truth, you have been drawn to Jehovah God by His Holy Spirit.
His invisible power that is so evident in all of creation and particularly in His word,
the Bible.
Spiritual men and women can see the unseen.
We know who created the heavens and the earth and all that is in them.
Our wonderful God, Jehovah.